this video may be the bookend or final
part to a series of videos both
consisting of me directly debating
communists left-wing extremists and some
of them be my reflections on analysis of
responses to those discussions a little
bit more a little bit more indirectly um
it's definitely not a type of content I
want to keep making for ever and ever in
part because most of those people come
to the discussions with a conviction
that they have absolutely nothing to
learn from the interaction for the most
part they they feel like those
conversations are just an opportunity
for them to demonstrate how committed
they are to the cause it was ultimately
kind of futile and frankly depressing
and not all debates are like that I
really noticed the difference lately
when I've debated with people who are
conservatives or right-wingers I noticed
that they all respect book-learning on
my part when it's demonstrated so it's
talking to a right-winger and he
mentioned something from a particular
book by Aristotle and I said to him you
know that is interesting but there's
this other book by Aristotle that
discusses it from a different angle have
you also looked at that he said oh no he
hadn't read that and right away the way
he responded to me the way he interacted
with me changed or he you know even
though he and I disagreed about politics
I was far to the left of him but
nevertheless he could recognize okay
I've done this reading I know something
about this and he was gonna respect my
opinion even if only provisionally he
was gonna be interested in what I had to
say on the basis of having read that
book and and the kind of conversation
could proceed in a respectful way from
there in talking to the far or
left-wingers by Conte the contrast they
come into the conversation with the
attitude
you can't teach me nothing they'll deny
that you've done any reading if you've
read something they'll claim you haven't
really read it I think I know which
table you boat but they'll insist that
you haven't read Karl Marx when you have
or whatever and even when you catch them
on historical facts or you know when
it's obvious you know something they
don't know they'll never have a kind of
humble and appreciative attitude like oh
okay thanks you talk you taught me
something or reminded me of something I
did
no or hadn't thought up for years there
I've gotten absolutely no positive
appreciation from from the far left that
way which I have gotten from
conservatives and the far right even
though in some ways the difference
between me and a conservative might be
more difficult to negotiate so with
ottoman said today I had a really
interesting and a really rewarding
conversation with a far left winger and
there were other people in the room I
was at the gym lifting weights so for a
large part of the conversation I just
listened as there was a sort of Socratic
dialogue address to the question of what
is the meaning of exploitation from this
kind of far left perspective so it's an
interesting problem a lot of people on
the far left this is really how this
this part of the conversation began a
lot of people on the far left used the
word exploitation in such a broad sense
that any employment is exploitation so
there's this long Socratic dialogue
getting at look if one man owns a lemon
tree and grows the lemons and makes it
into lemonade is that exploitation he's
doing it all himself it's one man who
owns one lemon tree and owns a lemonade
stand owns a laminated press do you
consider that exploitation and then the
sort of long sequence of questions to
get down to the root of what is it you
define as exploitation and what is it
that you are really promising when you
say that the end of capitalism will mean
the end of exploitation the end of the
exploitation of man by man so the
particular guy this debate happened with
a particular representative of socialism
and to some extent communism he's not a
typical communist he was really aware of
the extent to which communism tends to
make misleading promises by saying that
they will take away private property
ownership from the millionaire class
from the aristocrats from the plutocrats
from the capitalist elite
everyone say um he's aware of the extent
to which there's a misleading promise
that communists will take away that
ownership and then give it to the people
but in reality the people means the
state the government that basically a
government bureaucracy or even a
military dictatorship some
totalitarian regime takes over the role
of the owners and the managers of you
know what used to be free enterprise
private industry head so he was really
aware of that and that was that was not
the model of communism that he endorsed
of the model of socialism that he
endorsed is it the guy was to some
extent a commenter so instead of
socialist um what he defended was
exclusively the replacement of
capitalist ownership capitalist
investment even the replacement of that
with coop ownership cooperative so
workers co-ops workers cooperatives life
so this led to a really interesting
little dialogue to him not I mean again
a lot of this conversation I was just
lifting weights of the gyms listening in
I occasionally put in a work to then at
this point I step in and say okay well
now why I'm interested I'm interested in
in challenging you a bit or
disambiguating what your position is and
I said to him the following ok when you
look at a co-op grocery store and a
private sector corporate owned grocery
stores that's a real-world example a lot
of us know maybe in the city you're
living in there are co-op grocery stores
what is the difference now I'm not
claiming there's no difference but you
have to admit for you as a customer if
you go into a co-op cooperatively owned
workers coop owned grocery store
the prices are maybe 10% higher and the
salaries paid to the workers are maybe
5% higher and the variety this selection
of products and offer is narrower there
are fewer fewer different boxes of
cereal there especially with fresh
fruits with things that go bad that have
a short the the coop has to manage
things more tightly so all right there
are some there are some differences but
the difference between doing my grocery
shopping at a co-op and doing mcourser
shopping at a for-profit corporate owned
grocery store it's really not that
dramatic and especially if you compare
many of them
you know some corporate owned grocery
stores well some are better than others
to make long story short I mean where I
was in Victoria Victoria Canada you know
there was one chain and they were really
open that about the fact that even
though they were a corporate for-profit
corporation they they had this Charter
or this Constitution where they were
really committed to paying good wages to
their employees and to having low prices
for their customers they had this sort
of you know set of set of guidelines and
I met and spoke to people who have been
employed by more than Montrose to store
in the city yeah there's a real
difference these guys treat their
employees differently from those guys a
lot of sectors of the economy see that
so the point being there isn't some kind
of simple stark contrast between a co-op
owned business and you know and the
private for-profit on business
now this is following up on something I
discussed in an earlier video here if
you look at so an example might be at
university if you look at a public
university a government-owned
university and you'll get a private
for-profit university there are some
differences but we don't see in that
contrast the sort of night and day
difference that communists seem to be
promising when they talk about
abolishing man's exploitation event that
somehow you know capital is with the
with the end of capitalism there will be
this tremendous emancipation in the
start of a new era like if you say ok so
if what you guys are promising is you're
gonna go to all the private for-profit
universities and colleges and shut them
down and have the government take them
over and then the government will run
those universities like the public
sector university so the government the
universities some universities we
already have in the West are run by the
government sometime that's that's not
really gonna be liberation well you know
there there will be some differences you
know probably you know tuitions gonna be
a little bit lower and maybe this the
salaries professors are gonna be a
little bit higher and you know you can
look at some of the differences when you
compare you know what look in the United
States of state-owned college versus
kind of Ivy League college you know
maybe there will be less money wasted on
lavish football stadiums or something
you know you know there are some
differences though a great example in
assists
look at Navy University when the
military when the US military runs a
university that's a 100% government-run
thing and the budget is completely
provided by taxpayers I think they still
have a football team and a basketball
team and stuff but sure this is
different from the US Navy University
and you know Yale or you know some of
these some of these Ivy League endowment
based okay there's a differences another
difference about the university would be
the role of donors the role of you know
soliciting donations and patronage okay
there are some differences but we're not
looking at a stark difference here
between the exploitation of man and this
new era this new F hawk of the
exploitation of man now by contrast if
you look back in history not just in
North America not just in Europe if you
compare the epoch of slavery to the
abolition of slavery it's a huge
fundamental change in society there's a
much understudied history of the
abolition of slavery in China by the way
I think there is no good book in English
then there's never been a book in
English well-written well-researched
really dealing with how China abolished
slavery fascinating history and
everything changed everything
fundamentally change in people's lives
with the emancipation of the slaves to
the abolition of slavery so that that's
a big huge change in society it's like a
but you look around I gave all kinds of
examples and other videos but you see
okay so this is what this type of
business is like when it's run by the
government whether it's a prison or you
know whatever and you know this is what
it's like when a private sector
contractor takes it over okay so this is
what a public swimming pool is like when
it's owned by the government and run on
a kind of nonprofit government
taxpayer-funded basis and this is a
public swimming pool when it's a
for-profit corporation there are
differences there are advantages and
disadvantages but this is not the kind
of pep talk making transition people say
a new time but and now in this specific
dialogue with this guy we're getting
even more specifically more narrow
because we're not dealing with public
sector versus private sector
he's very narrowly endorsing a switch
from corporate owned capitalist owned
- a paradigm of co-op workers co-op
owned businesses after well some
different examples of workers coops one
another guy in the call throughout the
example of coop dairy farming it's a
great simple so you know in New Zealand
they have this history of workers coop
dairy farms and like guess what you look
at the workers coop dairy farms if you
look at everything how the animals are
treated exploitation of animals
exploitation of the laborers ecological
impacts and market look back you can
look at that and then you can look at a
for-profit corporation and how it runs
the dairy farms like ok I'm not saying
there are zero differences here but this
is this is a pretty slight difference
we're looking at the difference between
corporate ownership and the coop
ownership so the main example I
discussed at length and probably in the
city where you live you've seen this is
the difference between a private
for-profit taxi company so a corporation
let's say that owns taxis and then
employs people as taxi drivers compared
to a workers co-op taxi company that's
very common many cities at least in
Canada the United States they have a
co-op tat a co-op taxi company I mean
from the customers perspective there is
no visible difference
what's whipper and if you look into it
from the employees perspective is there
maybe a five percent difference so we
talked about that example at some length
and I said okay so what your whole
theory comes down to is this if that his
theory was his perspective was if a
company is earning a five percent profit
then that five percent is a fundamental
injustice and if they make a transition
to a workers coop
work everything's the same everything's
the same except that five percent gets
redistributed to the the workers or not
even registered it's handed out to the
workers as a bonus at the end of the
year then that's that's this paradise
that's the worker's paradise oh it's the
five percent difference the
he difference you see between going to a
whole foods a for-profit corporation
grocery store going to a workers
cooperative that's the difference he
wants to achieve disability now I very
briefly said some okay look you know
what I'm it's a difference it's a
difference it's a difference the
difference of whether the profits are
shared by the employees workers co-op
basis as opposed to the profits being
concentrated in the hands of the owners
or the hands of the executives or
whatever the situation is with this with
this corporation but then you have to
recognize also when you concentrate
profits in the answer the owners they
have the opportunity to take those
profits and put it into research and
development they have they can take
those profits and invest it in buying a
new machinery they can take those
profits and invest it in advertising I
think there were actually big
fundamental advantages to the profits
being held onto whether that's five
percent or seven percent or ten percent
I've been told most grocery stores
operate with like a two percent profit
margin I think they turn over a lot of
money but still they hold on to a pretty
pretty small margin in terms of
profitability so but if you take that
away from the grocery store obviously
the grocery store for example has no
budget for advertising anymore you know
they have no no budget for innovation or
making investment in new new equipment
and new things home so when you when you
just space this out over the medium term
when you're just looking at ten years of
20 years like you can see a lot of the
vendors but even more short-term than
that and this came up with the example
of the the coop the dairy co-op I notice
you presume that there's a five percent
profit to be shared what happens when
it's a five percent loss it's a lot
harder for a workers cooperative when
doer when you have the kinds of
challenges that are inevitable not just
in capitalism but in real life when
there were winners and losers when risks
get taken and when sometimes at the end
of the year it's
that you're handing other bonus do you
really think that the taxi company can
look at the taxi driver versus hey guys
we need to take some of your money away
because this year it's not a profit at
all we're in the red in conclusion I
said this to the guy in the conversation
- when communists talk about inching the
exploitation of man by man when they
make these promises of a new epic of a
new era they do so with pointedly vague
phrases especially phrases surrounding
the painfully vague concept of
exploitation they do so by vilifying
profit itself by vilifying capitalist
ownership itself but if you can talk to
someone on the far left who was as
honest as this guy if you can move past
those vague exaggerated history auto
claims all it is they're really
promising is something like a 5%
difference a difference that really
cannot justify a revolution